Hello everyone! Welcome back to another episode of the Grand Prixquel Podcast, where we discuss all things feeder series.
On today's episode, we are going to be doing a Eurocup 3 season preview.
Today's hosts are myself, Robin, Alex and Peter.
The Eurocup 3 is a regional series similar to FRECA or GB3, in between F4 and F3 and it is the parent series to Spanish F4 also.
We see a lot of drivers from Spanish F4 then move up to Eurocup 3 or EC3 for short.
And we’ve also recently, we had the winter series which we just talked about in an earlier episode as well.
We have a new car for this year, the Dallara 326.
Way better than whatever FREC has going on.
It was very exciting racing in the winter series.
Highly recommend you go watch it if you've not.
All available on YouTube.
But there is a bit of confusion over the new car, I think, because it was meant to not have push to pass, but in the winter series it had push to pass.
So, I guess we need to just see in the main series what happens.
But, overall, it's very enjoyable racing.
And in terms of the calendar, it’s pretty- quite similar to FREC.
Because again, regional, Formula Regional series, we have Silverstone, Hungaroring, Barcelona and Monza, to name a few, and potentially the new Madrid ring, which we're also seeing in Formula One.
I think that's just not been officially announced as it needs to be officially homologated or, but fairly sure it's going to be there.
Wasn't there like, a whole, like, discussion where the Madring guys posted “no, like we don't have, we don't host another thing”?
It was like a whole thing.
So we really don't know.
I read the, um, what's it called?
The regulations.
Um, and I'm pretty sure it says the Madring there, I think.
Great.
We just have to wait and see. I mean, it could be fun to see these cars on a street circuit because you've seen them race incredibly well. And also for the drivers, when you move up to F3 and F2, you do have more street circuits so that would be a good experience for them as well. And over the course of- we have three races over a weekend, which includes the sprint race.
And it's basically a fairly standard points for a feeder series with 25 for the winner, 18 for second and so on, with also 2 for pole and 1 for fastest lap.
All fairly standard if you're familiar with the feeder series.
I didn’t hear if you mentioned this bit, but the sprint race format is only there for three weekends.
It's not there for the entire championship, unlike the Spanish Winter Championship which had it for all three rounds.
It's very much similar to FREC, then, in the sense that... Yeah, except unlike FREC, we actually know which circuits the sprint races are going to be on.
In the regs, it says three tracks–even though on the wiki for some reason it says four–but the regs say Paul Ricard, Imola, and Silverstone will have the sprint races.
Good choice of track, especially Silverstone, it's going to be a fun race.
And we also have the team's title in Eurocup 3.
It's decided by the two best-placed drivers within each race.
So then this has been accounted for, some teams have a smaller lineup compared to others, so it's just top two drivers who reach the team and then contribute towards the team's championship.
Speaking of the team's championship, the team that won the Spanish Winter Championship…
Wait, before we get into the drivers, I want to point something out.
And that is that, what we didn't mention last time, when we were talking about Formula Regional, is that Formula Regional, in comparison to EC3, has limited drivers per team . Like, and in Formula Regional, you only have three drivers at max per team except for
some really random cases, which don't happen this season.
But in Eurocup-3, there is no limit.
So technically, team- does anyone know if there's like a limit?
Because I know it's not three, but- Four drivers.
Is it four?
Because I swear last year they had more.
They've changed the rules a lot since last year.
Ah, okay.
But actually, I'm going to talk about that when we go to Campos.
Great.
Okay, so talking about Campos, last season in Eurocup 3, teams were allowed to have like sister teams or satellite teams.
So you had Campos Racing, but then you had Griffin Core by Campos Racing.
So you had two different Campos teams.
And same thing with MP, you had MP and you had KCL by MP.
But this year, they're not allowed to do that.
It's just the one team.
It is still like two teams in Spanish F4, but we're not talking about Spanish F4.
So in Eurocup 3 this season, it's just Campos and it's just MP.
So, here, they're just sponsored by Griffin Core.
They're not actually, the Griffin isn't the team.
So Campos and MP are the two strongest teams.
Campos won the winter series teams’ championship.
And in my opinion, they have the strongest driver lineup.
I would agree.
So, first driver I want to talk about, and I'm so glad I can finally talk about him in an episode, Alex Powell.
Surprise, surprise!
He was in the Mercedes Academy from 2019 up until last year, and I'm still very, very mad about it, but I'm not going to talk about that.
He did two different winter series this year.
He competed in Formula Regional Middle East, and he competed in the Eurocup 3 Spanish Winter Championship.
He, uh, had quite a bit of bad luck in both. Like, in Formula Regional Middle East, he had two pole positions, both in Dubai. DNF’d from one race, and did not start the other. And I'm really, really sad about that. Ended up P4 in the championship. And then, in the Eurocup-3 Spanish Winter Championship, he finished P5 after he won a race at Jarama but, um, got penalized from the win.
I will add on–if you want somebody a bit less biased than Robin–that he did overall have quite a strong winter campaign, and had good pace across both series, so, looking very positive for him. And he's always been fast.
If you’ve seen his entire kind of feeder series career; he's always been up there.
And, to also add not biased on here, you always have to consider, though, drivers are unlucky. And sometimes they can move on from it, and they can do great things, even if you haven't seen them be right in the top front of the field.
And sometimes they could do better than they actually do.
So, no matter what happens this season, he's a solid driver.
I would not be surprised if he's in the title fight.
He can get his luck sorted out.
I mean, it's all a bit of luck, you know?
And I think, I think just in general, what I think is really important about Eurocup 3 and, what Robin hasn't mentioned yet, is that I think you have so the dri- and the teams are pretty big.
You don't have it as in FRECA where you only have like,
you know, one or two strong teams with one or two strong drivers, I think in Campos, in the whole lineup, which we will go into further in just a second, all of them can fight for the win.
It was like that in the last few seasons where you had like, and you know, Campos have technically like eight drivers or more, because they would switch them out after every round, and they would all fight in the front.
So I think Eurocup 3 is…
Great choice for Powell in that regard, because he's more likely to fight for the title than he would be if he joined, you know, a team that costs similarly much in FRECA.
I think he could definitely be a title contender if his luck decides to sort itself out.
Before anything this season, he was in F4 last year.
He competed in Italian F4 with R-ace GP last season.
Was not a very good season, though he did win a couple of races in both Italian F4 and Euro 4.
All of his race wins in Italy last season came at Mugello, which is why my Twitter username is mugellomerchant, if you did not realize.
F4 Middle East, he placed P2.
His engine died twice in the first round, which possibly lost him the title.
Like, his luck needs to sort itself out if he wants to win a championship, basically.
And in 2024, he was the Italian F4 rookie champion.
I'm going to shut up now.
We want to talk about his teammates.
Yes, so of course, alongside him we have Thomas Strauven, who's equally as strong.
He is the reigning Spanish F4 Champion and he absolutely dominated over there, pretty much.
He podiumed in 17 out of 21 of the races, so he's very much going to be one of the title favourites, I would say.
He had a bit of bad luck during the Eurocup 3 Spanish Winter Championship.
And like we discussed in that episode, bad luck in a three-round championship really messes you up.
Winter series, yeah.
Winter series aren't real, anyways.
I mean, Peter can talk a lot about winter series not being real.
I mean, they don't always represent what a driver overall is going to perform, and drivers sometimes have a different mentality towards the winter series.
Like, you have a driver who is experienced in saying that.
Yeah, I mean, he always performs better in the main series compared to the winter.
He always locks in for the main series.
Why are we talking about Freddie Slater in the Eurocup 3 episode?
I wanna make fun of Peter!
I’m sorry, I'm sorry.
Cause Freddie Slater’s the goat.
That's why.
Okay. Patrick Heuzenroder.
My wish for an episode is… an episode in which we learn how to pronounce the names, because… Please tell me how I'm supposed to pronounce his name.
Again, he's a very strong driver, competed in GB3 last year, finishing up as the runner-up.
And here he competed in F3 in Australia, replacing the injured Rivera.
So again, I mean, he's quite a solid driver.
I don't know if he can quite compete at the same level as maybe Powell or Strauven, but he's certainly up there and he's quite solid.
His winter series was a bit like, especially near the end, he was causing quite a few incidents.
So I feel like he is a good driver, but I think he needs to clean that up a bit for the main campaign.
I find drivers coming from GB3 generally hard to rate because I think he can really, you know, work with the cars and, you know, with the speed like GB3 and EC3 as we have mentioned is on pretty much the similar level. But, I think the circuits could really be a problem for him because majority of drivers, you know, driving in EC3,
their experience coming from Spanish F4. So, they've driven those circuits before. And they have the vibes and they know how to drive on these kind of circuits, and the kind of championship- quite a few of them have experienced driving against each other. Coming from GB3 could be more difficult.
About the circuits thing,
I want to mention that about Powell actually, because unlike the winter series, Powell has actually raced on quite a few of the main campaign circuits before.
I mean, obviously, he's done Imola and Monza during Italian F4, he's done Barcelona as well, and he's obviously raced Portimao in the winter series.
So with the experience on the circuits that a driver coming from Spanish F4, for example, hasn't done, I feel like he should have an advantage on, particularly Imola and Monza.
A few of the GB3 circuits, you'll see there, such as Silverstone and Hungaroring, so I think in terms of circuits, they've all had a few circuits they've all competed on.
And then, completing the Campos lineup, I'm sorry if I butchered his name.
We have Enzo Tarvin-, I don't know how to say it. Tarnvanichkul.
So, he is a Red Bull junior and, surprisingly, I don't know if this is a surprise or not a surprise, but he was the highest-placed Campos driver in the winter series.
It was a little bit of a surprise to me because for the entire campaign, Powell was the best Campos driver, but we move on from that.
It's kind of one of those things, maybe that, on paper, X and Y driver are better, but then again, three round series, only nine races, how representative is it, really?
But again, you know, he's solid.
It's not like he's some like a** driver.
He's quite solid.
And I mean, the fact he's a Red Bull junior.
And I mean, last year he finished P8, he got a win.
So yeah, that's not bad by any means.
I just wanted to say that he's one of the Red Bull Juniors at Campos, because apparently, Campos is, half of the time, just the Red Bull Junior team. Which I find to be quite interesting and I'll argue if he does well this season, we're very likely to see him in Formula 3, also with Campos.
How surprising.
I think that moving on from Campos, we have then MP Motorsport who are the current reigning teams’ champion from last year.
So, I think their lead driver, very much, is Rene Lammers.
He was the rookie champion in the winter series, and was P3 overall. Was in Spanish F4 last year. Again, had a solid campaign.
I think he's a pretty solid driver.
I feel like he could definitely be one of the title contenders.
I don't know how to feel about him personally.
I can't base it fully off of the winter series.
When I look at it, he's done two years in Spanish F4.
I mean, I'm not fully convinced, but I'm very happy to be proven wrong.
I feel like he has a super like standard career, like two years in Formula 4, you know, first one just getting used to single seaters, second one doing fairly well. Now he's doing, like, technically on the Formula Regional level, then we'll see him again in Formula 3. You know, it's just like
there's drivers where we're like, ‘Oh my God, they're great. You know, we see them move, we will see them definitely move on very, very fast.’ He's, you know, not quite one of those, which is not bad. We also see drivers like him though very well, we see drivers like him even make it to Formula 1. It's just.. a lot of times the parts where they become really, really promising only comes later on.
Alongside him we have Ean Eyckmans, who again, I mean, came from Spanish F4, as a lot of these drivers have.
And again, just another solid driver in my opinion.
Another one who could possibly fight for the title–in my ideal world–
The winter series and the main campaign should be a Powell, Strauven, Lammers, and Eyckmans title fight.
But obviously this is not an ideal world.
God knows what's going to happen.
I can just dream.
What bad luck is going to strike Powell down?
No, I had someone comment on my Twitter account asking if I'm ready for Bianca Bustamante dominance.
Personally, I'm not.
No offense to her, but no.
Do you want to talk about the other in the MP lineup?
Um, yeah, of course so.
I mean, again we have Pradel, Gianmarco Pradel, who, again, is a solid driver.
I'm not too sure if he's quite as good as Lammers and Eyckmans is, but he's still quite solid.
I mean, he was P6 in the winter series,
again, he's come from GB3, like Heuzenroeder has, he finished P4.
So he’s nothing shoddy by any means.
Yeah, definitely a decent driver.
Probably should be fighting for wins.
I mean, yeah, he's always in the upper half of the point.
I remember him from GB3 last year, he'd always be up there.
I mean, the same can't be said about their teammate exactly, can it?
I mean, you have these three, then you have Neto, who is… he’s just there.
If any of you have watched Formula Regional Middle East, you will probably recognise the name, Alceu Feldmann Neto.
I remember… this is really mean, actually.
I don't think I can say that.
Gonna call him a**?
No, I wasn't going to call him that.
He was usually in the back of the field.
He was sometimes involved in a couple of incidents throughout the campaign.
He had a much cleaner Eurocup-3 campaign, the Eurocup-3 Spanish Winter Championship campaign.
Incident wise, not pace wise.
Pace wise, he was still quite...
He wasn't causing incidents, at least.
Other teammates were all in the top seven.
Meanwhile, he's down in P19 in the standings.
I think that says all that needs to be said.
I'm being stared at by a cat right now.
This is like a Cody interruption, but not Cody.
If we're talking about, you know, the back of winter series, I think it's time that we make the jump to other notable drivers.
And I've already cut into that conversation of Bianca Bustamante, who will be driving with Palou Motorsport, the team
founded?
You know, done? Managed? Somewhat it’s related to Alex Palou, who you might know from being like, incredibly well in IndyCar and-
Can't, can't escape this guy ever.
He's always there, winning.
He just can’t stop winning IndyCar. And, you know, he's a solid guy, he has a team, which I think is really cool. And getting to Bustamante, the whole point is she's the only female driver on the grid, and she was-
during the Spanish Winter Championship.
She really struggled.
I remember that there was quite a bit of problems with her because she used, like, push to pass too often, or like in moments where it wasn't allowed. And, I was confused because I thought we didn't even have push to pass? That was a bit difficult.
Yeah, it was really weird
Generally, if we speak about teams like Palou Motorsport, I wanted to point out that we don't have, uh, Sainteloc Racing, but we did gain Hitech, which I think is cool because everyone who knows Hitech knows it's a fairly known team in motorsports, you know, in feeder series.
So I think it's always kind of good to have a team that will also be able to keep these drivers.
And if they do well with Hitech, maybe we see them again in F3 with Hitech, you know?
Speaking of Hitech,
we can't ignore, of course, the winter series champion.
Keanu Al-Azhari. What do we think of him?
He came out of nowhere, in my opinion.
Like, it's not like-
He's a solid driver, but, kind of compared to the other drivers, like we've mentioned before, who are there with the MP and the Campos.
We weren't really expecting it.
Yeah.
Him and Egozi as well.
Egozi finished runner-up in the championship.
Wait, he finished runner-up, right?
Yeah. I wasn't really expecting him up there? I don't know what I expected because, like, I came into the championship knowing not much.
Egozi is a winter series merchant. Just like- Honestly, I’m not joking. You look at his past results, he always performs a lot better in winter series. Like, for example, last year: P3 in the winter, P9 in the main series. And, even when you look at in F4, he was like that.
I mean, majority of his wins have come in winter series. And keep in mind, winter series has a lot less races than the main series.
I think it's important to note here that winter series, like, performance, doesn't always mean you'll do well in the main campaign as well.
We had it last year with Maciej Gładysz.
I think I said that right.
But he won the winter series.
He won Eurocup-3 Spanish Winter Championship last year.
He finished 10th in the main series.
So, just because.. Al Azhari won the winter series doesn't necessarily mean he'll do well again, though I do want to see what he'll do with Hitech.
Yeah, and especially when we consider that Campos and MP are very much the dominant teams.
They've always been the top two, maybe being with Hitech also puts him at a disadvantage.
I think it'll be super interesting to see how Hitech actually sorts into, like,
the dynamics. Because we know that, as you said, MP and Campos they pretty much I think they won almost all titles in the past like 10 years and with Hitech, coming in which is a team that generally has won quite a lot in Britain, but not really as much yet in Spanish, Southern European sort of things.
I think another driver we need to mention is, uh, Kacper Sztuka.
I want to talk about Kacper Sztuka, because I mentioned him.
When I was researching this morning, I was reading through the Wikipedia page, I remembered that he did the winter series and that he was surprisingly low down.
Because, last year, Kacper Sztuka finished P3 in Eurocup 3, which is I think a pretty solid result and something that a lot of drivers, especially, he was with Campos, would have used-
I think he must have been like the best or what, second best? Campos entry. If I don't remember wrong, you have to correct me.
The point is, that's usually something someone would take and go into F3, but Kacper Sztuka is a bit.. he has a bit of a weird, you know,
just... time. Because he actually did F3 before in 2024 with MP, but now- Then he was with Campos in Eurocup-3, did pretty well. And now he's with Tecnicar by Amtog, which is…
not a good team, to say it in a nice way. And it's a bit weird, and kind of disappointing, because he won Italian F4 in, I think it was 2023, and he won that against drivers like Arvid Lindblad, who's a full a** Formula 1 driver at the moment. So it's kind of…
disappointing and kind of weird to see him stuck in Formula Regional level when, you know, he's proven that he can do really well. And I'm honestly a bit fascinated by the fact that he would return to Eurocup-3 because… I discussed it with some people, and I've collected all the Polish motorsports fans in my comments on Twitter, and
some of them said that he's doing it in hopes of winning the championship, actually, to score the funding needed to really go back to F3, F2, to really get closer to F1.
I mean, we've also seen this with Nikita Bedrin.
Bedrin's done a full F3 season, but now he's kind of gone backwards in a way.
Having a backwards career trajectory. In a couple of years we’ll be like… he'll be, like, back in karting or something, he'll be with the mini group threes.
Yeah, but it is quite funny because the fact that he did...
I mean, he is also an Italian F4 champion from 2023.
We can't forget that.
He is a good driver.
But also, if we talk about what he does, I think it's quite interesting because I've heard from... because all the Polish people found my post and told me quite a lot and, you know, I don't know how much of it is true and, it's probably a bit biased, but quite a few of them said–which I found interesting–
that he is not sponsored by Orlen, Orlen anymore, which is like a Polish brand that sponsors quite a majority of Polish drivers. Like you see them with, Robert Kubica. You see them with that one Polish karting girl. You see them like with the three Polish drivers that I can think of.
The point is, they pay quite a lot as far as I know, but he's not with them anymore.
And I've heard rumors that he's got, like, Tymek, the driver that is now in IndyNXT, who, you know, last season won Euroformula Open, who's also Polish.
Just like him, he got offered his seat in IndyNXT, but declined to go back to… Eurocup-3 with Tecnicar by Amtog.
I don't quite know what to make of this.
That's a really stupid decision.
That's top 10 worst decisions I heard of.
And last driver that I wanted to talk about is Gino Trappa, who comes from being the Formula 4 Central European Zone champion.
And, personally, I just always love an underdog, and, I sadly forgot which team he's doing it with, which is pretty important.
He's with Hitech, actually.
So, this is also why I hope that he's with Hitech, just like Keanu Al-Azhari, which is why I kind of hope Hitech will be good, because it would be so cool to have three great teams up in the front and have him, you know, do it greatly.
I just think it's interesting and he's done some beloved Euroformula Open, as well as someone has mentioned. We love Euroformula Open. That bird that just tweeted–I don't know if you guys heard that but that bird also loves Euroformula Open. Which bird?
There was a bird I'm sitting outside and there was a bird that just started chirping when we mentioned Euroformula Open. So, do we want to talk about predictions?
Of course, so I think we know what you're gonna say.
Obviously, I want Alex Powell to win the championship.
Okay, and I've predicted him for the championship in all the series that he has competed in this year so far.
I have been wrong both times, but I refuse to be wrong this time, so he better lock in.
And then, I think Campos will win the team's championship.
I agree on the Campos team champs, but for drivers, I'm going to go Thomas Strauven.
But I think it's going to be kind of a Lammers, Strauven, Powell kind of title fight.
I really hope it is.
I really want a good title fight.
Yeah, I think on paper he should be, but I think Strauven will come out on top, due to his experience in Spanish F4, being really dominant there.
I think that, because I get paid by Robin, that Alex Powell should be in the title fight versus like René Lammers.
But, as I've said! I'm hopeful that Hitech could also do well and I'm hopeful to see proper fight up front because I think it's a possibility with Eurocup-3 being, you know, generally cheaper compared to
Formula Regional and I think there's more teams that managed to pull it all together and managed to really fight up front and I'm excited for that.
I think that's it.
Does anyone else want to mention anything?
We'd love to hear all of your predictions as well.
Let us know.
Yeah, and don't call out my bias, because I know I'm biased.
Shut up!
Um... okay, Robin ‘mugellomerchant’, you’re totally not biased. Um…My name on Discord is literally ‘NOT alex powell’, so obviously I'm not biased.
But yeah, so I think that will be it for today's episode.
Thank you guys for listening.
As always, if you have any comments or anything, let us know.
And please follow us on all our socials, Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok @grandprixquel.
And we'll see you for the next episode, which will be an Italian F4 season preview.